Now we've seen KMS,
and we know how to create CMKs, but what is something
we can practically do with them?
Whether you're a developer or a security architect,
at some point you're going to need to encrypt some data.
Maybe it's a connection string or a password or some confidential files.
And of course, you've seen how we can encrypt entire databases or EBS volumes,
for example, within AWS.
But let's see how we actually go about encrypting
specific secrets and pieces of data.
So you might think that you just choose a CMK and
tell it to encrypt this and be done.
But it's not always that simple.
It turns out these master keys have a size limitation for the amount
of data that they can directly encrypt or decrypt,
and that limit is 4KB.
So that's great if I'm encrypting something like a connection
string or a password or maybe a really small file.
But how can we use KMS to encrypt megabytes or gigabytes of data, like
huge objects in S3 or an entire database or file system?
Well the answer lies in something called envelope encryption.
Envelope encryption uses master keys and data keys, so let's define these.
Master keys, your CMKs, are used to generate data keys, and it's just an API
call to generate a data key for a CMK. But data keys don't have the 4KB‑size
limit for encrypting and decrypting data.
So what we do is use the data key to encrypt our data.
Then we use the master key to encrypt the data key,
and we store it alongside the data we just encrypted with that same data
key, so essentially within the same envelope, hence the name envelope
encryption. And on the other end, to decrypt,
we just reverse the process.
We use the master key to decrypt the encrypted data key, and then we use the decrypted data key to decrypt the data.